hello I'm on March oh and thanks again
for joining us in today's lesson we will
be gaining inspiration from the
wonderful Gustav Klimt as I create an
artwork and even Bella with gold
leaf so let's begin and draw in the
initial outline in pencil
now Gustav Klimt was an 18th century
artist who loved symbolism and patterns
such as recurring spirals like I'm doing
here take your time with balancing your
drawing on the triple fit canvas but
keep it free and flowing an image has
been provided for your reference on the
pdf version of this lesson once the tree
has been drawn up we can start on our
background and because I want the
background to be gold leaf we must apply
a glue or size to any area where I want
the gold leaf to be applied to I'll be
applying the size with my angle number 8
brush and for the final little parts on
the inside I'll probably be using around
so try and get this on as thinly as you
can so pour your size out into the deep
oil plastic palette and apply to the
canvas remember to wash your brushes as
soon as you finish this step the size is
now ready for gold leaf application and
I can tell that if I place my finger on
it it tacks but it doesn't leave a
residue on the finger so now for the fun
part let's put the gold leaf on
so gently take your gold leaf out and
you get 25 sheets and each is
interleaved
with a piece of tissue paper and that
makes the application a lot more simple
so apply the sheets as gently as you can
rolling them across the canvas I like to
tile and overlap them so now I'm just
gently rubbing off the gold leaf and you
will see that the areas where I haven't
applied my size simply doesn't speak to
try and be as gentle as you can with
this many of Clint's paintings from 1898
to 1908 incorporated gold leaf this was
called his golden face once you have
brushed off the excess gold leaf
painting your tree I'm using burnt
sienna burnt umber and Van Dyck Brown in
the wonderful dimension acrylic range
use around for the smaller areas and
apply a thinner coat of paint foot
interest now concentrate on the colorful
patters such as the eyes pollen and
circles which played a huge part in
Flint's work he used a broad range of
colors so for this I'm going to suggest
the 12 pack of acrylics which is perfect
for mixing the shades it's used I've
painted my own stylized L in red here
for a strong focal point and for fun of
course
well that's about it you know I have
really enjoyed the artistic diversion
that this painting has given me the
goldleaf gives a look that no other
medium can achieve and I still have nine
sheets left for another art adventure so
until next time keep on creating art